IT IS NOT COMPLETE YET, DON'T FOLLOW THIS INSTRUCTIONS 

= Introduction =

This project is a Java web application that needs a Servlet Container to work. It has been tested in Tomcat 6.0.X, but it must work with any container. So this project is packaged as a WAR file, that must be deployed into container.

It is supposed to work in any operating system supported by the Servlet Container, but it has only been tested into GNU/Linux Ubuntu Server >= 8.04.

However, it needs some other prerequisites in order to work. It uses an external XML data base to store image header's metadata. One of the included plugins need (X)!MedCon program installed (until I can link it through JNI) and finally it needs a directory (or remote file system) to store images.

This page gives you both, a minimal instructions to get project working, and a complete instructions set to build a server from scratch.

= Details =

== Minimal configuration ==

If you already has a server with a Servlet Container, of course you could use it to deploy this application. Don't forget to download all required [LibrariesDependencies Libraries] and install it either _WEB-INF/lib_ or servlet container shared libs directory.

You need to setup three elements:

 * *eXist XML Data Base*: You could install this data base in the same server machine or another one. Version required is 1.2. If you install eXist into a 64bit machine, you must be carefull with service script, because it ready for 32bit, and you must hack it. Follow these [InstalleXist instructions].

 * *(X)!MedCon*: Most distributions includes this software, so install version >= 0.10.4. If your distribution doe not include this software, download and compile, it is very easy.

 * *Image Library Directory*: You need to create a directory where application will store images. 

== Complete configuration ==